=== Installing Developer Tools
With these instructions, you can install Codewind for two IDEs: VS Code and Eclipse. 


=== Installing Codewind for VS Code
The Codewind installation includes two parts:
1. The VS Code extension installs when you install Codewind from the VS Code Marketplace or when you install by searching in the "VS Code Extensions" view.
2. The Codewind back end containers install after you click "Install" when you are prompted. After you click Install, the necessary images are downloaded from the internet. The download is approximately 1 GB.

The following images are pulled. These images together form the Codewind back end:
* eclipse/codewind-initialize-amd64
* eclipse/codewind-performance-amd64
* eclipse/codewind-pfe-amd64

== Using Codewind
When the installation is complete, the extension is ready to use, and you are prompted to open the Codewind workspace.
You can open the codewind-workspace or a project within the workspace as your VS Code workspace. For more information, see "Getting started: Codewind for VS Code."

== Working workspaces
Codewind creates the Codewind workspace on your system.
The Codewind workspace is where Codewind expects to find your projects and where Codewind stores its metadata. 
On macOS and Linux, the workspace folder is ~/codewind-workspace. On Windows, the workspace folder is C:\codewind-workspace.
When Codewind creates a new project, it is created in the Codewind workspace. 
If you want to add an existing project to Codewind, first copy it into the Codewind workspace.

== Updating the Codewind plug-in
Update your Codewind plug-in without unintalling the extension. 

1. Go to the "Extensions" view in VS Code.
2. Search for the latest Codewind version in the Marketplace.
3. Install the latest version of Codewind. Then, reload Codewind.
4. Go to the "Explorer" view in VS Code.
5. Depending on the current status of Codewind, one of two messages appear:
  * If the images from a previous version or release of Codewind are installed on the system, but Codewind is not running, a message asks you to install the most recent images. Click "OK" to start the download.
  * If an older version of Codewind is installed and running, a message asks you to update the older version. Click "OK," and Codewind stops automatically, and new images begin to download.
6. Wait for the Codewind installation to complete. Codewind starts and is ready to use.

== Removing containers and images
To remove Codewind, see "Uninstalling Codewind from VS Code." 

== Troubleshooting 
Troubleshooting includes two parts: reinitiating the Codewind installation and resetting the installation. 

Reinitiating the Codewind installation
If you don't click "Install" when the "Install" prompt first appears, you can access the notification again. 
Go to the "Explorer" view, hover the cursor over "Codewind," and click the switch so that it changes to the "On" position. 
The "Install" prompt appears.

Resetting the installation
To reset the installation, uninstall Codewind and install it again.
For more information about troubleshooting Codewind, see the "Troubleshooting page."


=== Installing Codewind for Eclipse 
The Codewind installation includes two parts: 
1. The Eclipse plug-in installs when you install Codewind from the Eclipse Marketplace or when you install by searching in the "Eclipse Extensions" view.
2. The Codewind back end containers install after you click "Install" when you are prompted. After you click "Install," the necessary images are downloaded from the internet. The download is approximately 1 GB.
3. Optional: If you don't click "Install" when the notification window first appears, you can access the notification again. Go to the Explorer view, hover the cursor over "Codewind," and click the switch so that it changes to the "On" position. The window appears.

The following images are pulled. These images together form the Codewind back end:
* eclipse/codewind-initialize-amd64
* eclipse/codewind-performance-amd64
* eclipse/codewind-pfe-amd64

== Using Codewind 
When the installation is complete, the extension is ready to use, and you are prompted to open the Codewind workspace.
You can open the codewind-workspace or a project within the workspace as your Eclipse workspace. For more information, see "Getting started: Codewind for Eclipse."

== Working with workspaces 
Codewind creates the Codewind workspace on your system. 
The Codewind workspace is where Codewind expects to find your projects and where Codewind stores its metadata.
On macOS and Linux, the workspace folder is ~/codewind-workspace. 
On Windows, the workspace folder is C:\codewind-workspace. 
When Codewind creates a new project, it is created in the Codewind workspace.
If you want to add an existing project to Codewind, first copy it into the Codewind workspace.

== Updating the Codewind plug-in
Update the Codewind Eclipse plug-in to the latest version.

1. From Eclipse, go to "Help>About Eclipse IDE."
2. Click "Installation details."
3. To look for the latest release, highlight "Codewind tech preview" and click "Update...."
4. Select the latest version and click "Next."
5. Review the license and click "Finish."
6. Click "Restart Now" to refresh Codewind to the latest version.
7. After Codewind restarts, go to the "Codewind Explorer" view. Double-click "Codewind" to update it to the latest version.
8. Click "OK" in the "Codewind Update" window that states that the older version of Codewind will be removed, and the newer version will be started.
9. After Codewind updates, the "Codewind Explorer" view appears with your projects.

== Removing containers and images 
To remove Codewind, see "Uninstalling Codewind from Eclipse." 

== Troubleshooting
To troubleshoot Codewind, see the "Troubleshooting page." 
